---
title: Getting started
description: 'Download & install Ionic and setup Capacitor for usage'
---

## Installation

Add `@nuxtjs/ionic` to your project's dev dependencies:

::code-group

```bash [yarn]
yarn add --dev @nuxtjs/ionic
```

```bash [npm]
npm install @nuxtjs/ionic -D
```

```bash [pnpm]
pnpm install @nuxtjs/ionic -D
```

::

Then add the module to your Nuxt configuration:

```js{}[nuxt.config]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  modules: ['@nuxtjs/ionic']
})
```

Finally, either remove your `app.vue` file or replace it with a custom one (starting with [this template](/features#advanced)).

You're good to go!

::alert{type=info}
The first time you start a Nuxt project with `@nuxtjs/ionic` enabled, a `ionic.config.json` file will be created if it doesn't already exist.
::

## Enabling Capacitor

[Capacitor](https://capacitorjs.com/) is a powerful tool for shipping to native platforms like iOS and Android alongside your web app.

The good news is that it's installed by default with `@nuxtjs/ionic`, but you will need to enable it and choose what platforms you want to support.

> The Ionic CLI is available via `npx` or can be installed globally with `npm install -g @ionic/cli` or `yarn global add @ionic/cli`.

```bash
npx @ionic/cli integrations enable capacitor # or ionic integrations enable capacitor
npx @ionic/cli capacitor add ios # or ionic capacitor add ios
npx @ionic/cli capacitor add android # or ionic capacitor add android
```

### Run on iOS or Android

Once an Android or iOS project is added with Capacitor, you can run your app on an iOS or Android emulator.

::alert
Android Studio and SDK (for Android projects) or XCode (for iOS projects) are required to use the `npx cap open` or `npx cap run` command. See the [Capacitor Environment Setup docs](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/getting-started/environment-setup) for details.
::

To build, sync, and run your app:

1. Create a web build with `npx nuxi generate` or `npx nuxi build`.
2. Run `npx cap sync` to update your Capacitor project directories with your latest app build.
3. Run `npx cap run android` or `npx cap run ios` to run the app from the command line using an installed device **OR**
4. _(Optional)_ Run `npx cap open android` or `npx cap open ios` to open the project in Android Studio or XCode, respectively.

> Remember to run `npx cap sync` after every new build to ensure your Android and/or iOS project is up-to-date.

## Options

While not required, you can configure the features that are enabled:

```js
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  modules: ['@nuxtjs/ionic'],
  ionic: {
    integrations: {
      //
    },
    css: {
      //
    },
    config: {
      //
    }
  },
})
```

### `integrations`

- **meta**

  Default: `true`
  Disable to take full control of meta tags.

- **pwa**

  Default: `true`
  Disable to take full control of icon generation, manifest and service worker installation.

- **router**

  Default: `true`
  Disable to configure Ionic Router yourself.

- **icons**

  Default: `true`
  Disable to stop icons from being auto-imported.

### `css`

- **core**

  Default: `true`
  Disable to import these CSS files manually.

- **basic**

  Default: `true`
  Disable to import these CSS files manually.

- **utilities**

  Default: `false`
  Enable to add extra Ionic CSS utilities.

### `config`

- See [Config Options](https://ionicframework.com/docs/vue/config#config-options)
