docs/content/3.features.md, before:

---
title: Features
description: 'All the features this module offers for building apps with Ionic at great speed'
---

## Page routing

Out of the box, you can start building your Ionic application by creating routes within `~/pages` directory. To access the router, you should use `useIonRouter()` rather than `useRouter()` (which is auto-imported from `vue-router`).

Nuxt utilities like `definePageMeta` will continue to work, but you should avoid using `<NuxtPage>` or `<NuxtLayout>`.

::alert
The root component of every page should be the `<ion-page>` component.
::

::alert
If you do not have a `~/pages/index.vue` file in your project, you should add the following code to the page that you want to be displayed on your app's root page:

```ts [pages/home.vue]
definePageMeta({
  alias: ['/'],
})
```

::

## Theming the app

To customize the theme of your app, you can override the Ionic's default css variables. You can start by creating a `~/assets/css/ionic.css` file and adding it to `css` property in your `nuxt.config.ts` file. Following the example:

::code-group

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  css: ['~/assets/css/ionic.css'],
})
```

```css [assets/css/ionic.css]
:root {
  --ion-color-primary: #57e389;
  --ion-color-primary-rgb: 87, 227, 137;
  --ion-color-primary-contrast: #000000;
  --ion-color-primary-contrast-rgb: 0, 0, 0;
  --ion-color-primary-shade: #4dc879;
  --ion-color-primary-tint: #68e695;

  /* And so on... */
}
```

::

To learn more about theming and which variables to override, check out Ionic's [official theming documentation](https://ionicframework.com/docs/theming/basics).

## Ionic Framework components

All Ionic Vue components should be auto-imported throughout your app. (If you find one that isn't, please open an issue.) Although your IDE should be aware of these everywhere, they are not globally registered and are only imported within the components that use them. For more on how component imports work, see the [Nuxt documentation](https://v3.nuxtjs.org/guide/directory-structure/components#components-directory).

## Module utility components

Module also offers few components made for easier and more seamless way to integrate Ionic's composables or functions into your Nuxt app.

### `IonAnimation` component

Component made specifically to make usage of Ionic's `createAnimation` easier. It has almost 1 to 1 props matching as your usual animation object. For more see [official Ionic docs](https://ionicframework.com/docs/utilities/animations) or check out [playground examples](https://github.com/danielroe/nuxt-ionic/blob/main/playground/pages/tabs/tab4.vue)

You can see how it replaces usage of regular `createAnimation` function in the code example below:

::code-group

```vue [IonAnimation]
<template>
  <IonAnimation
    :duration="3000"
    :iterations="Infinity"
    :keyframes="[
      { offset: 0, background: 'red' },
      { offset: 0.72, background: 'var(--background)' },
      { offset: 1, background: 'green' },
    ]"
    playOnMount
  >
    <!-- Content to animate -->
  </IonAnimation>
</template>
```

```vue [Manual usage]
<script setup lang="ts">
// Template ref of your element
const squareRef = ref()

// Your animation object
const animation = createAnimation()
  .addElement(squareRef.value)
  .duration(3000)
  .iterations(Infinity)
  .keyframes([
    { offset: 0, background: 'red' },
    { offset: 0.72, background: 'var(--background)' },
    { offset: 1, background: 'green' },
  ])

onMounted(() => {
  animation.play()
})
</script>
```

::

::alert{type=info}
Currently component doesn't support grouped and chained animations. For that usage we still recommend using `createAnimation` by itself
::

## Icons

Icons are auto-imported from `ionicons/icons` by default, following the pattern of camel case naming with `ionicons` in front of the original icon name, that you can find on the [official ionicons website](https://ionic.io/ionicons).

::code-group

```vue [Auto-imported icons]
<template>
  <ion-icon :icon="ioniconsImage"></ion-icon>
  <ion-icon :md="ioniconsSquareSharp" :ios="ioniconsTriangleOutline"></ion-icon>
</template>
```

```vue [Manual imports]
<script setup lang="ts">
import { image, squareSharp, triangleOutline } from 'ionicons/icons'
</script>

<template>
  <ion-icon :icon="image"></ion-icon>
  <ion-icon :md="squareSharp" :ios="triangleOutline"></ion-icon>
</template>
```

::

You can opt-out of auto-importing by setting `integrations.icons` module options in your `nuxt.config.ts` to `false`.

## Helper functions

Nuxt provides a number of Ionic hooks/composables via auto-imports within your app:

`createAnimation`, `createGesture`, `getPlatforms`, `getTimeGivenProgression`, `iosTransitionAnimation`, `isPlatform`, `mdTransitionAnimation`, `menuController`, `onIonViewWillEnter`, `onIonViewDidEnter`, `onIonViewWillLeave`, `onIonViewDidLeave`, `useBackButton`, `useKeyboard`, `useIonRouter`

For more on what these do, you can read the [Ionic docs](https://ionicframework.com/docs/). For more on how auto-imports work, see the [Nuxt documentation](https://v3.nuxtjs.org/guide/concepts/auto-imports#auto-imports).

## Advanced

### Customizing your root `app.vue`

If you need to customize the default Ionic `app.vue` file, you can create a new one in your project's source directory.

This is the default:

```vue [app.vue]
<template>
  <ion-app>
    <ion-router-outlet />
  </ion-app>
</template>
```

Commit message:

style: reorder hooks and components internally (#96)
* chore: add comment noting the change

* style: reorder array contents to follow alphabetical order

* docs: add note about style preference

docs/content/3.features.md, after:

---
title: Features
description: 'All the features this module offers for building apps with Ionic at great speed'
---

## Page routing

Out of the box, you can start building your Ionic application by creating routes within `~/pages` directory. To access the router, you should use `useIonRouter()` rather than `useRouter()` (which is auto-imported from `vue-router`).

Nuxt utilities like `definePageMeta` will continue to work, but you should avoid using `<NuxtPage>` or `<NuxtLayout>`.

::alert
The root component of every page should be the `<ion-page>` component.
::

::alert
If you do not have a `~/pages/index.vue` file in your project, you should add the following code to the page that you want to be displayed on your app's root page:

```ts [pages/home.vue]
definePageMeta({
  alias: ['/'],
})
```

::

## Theming the app

To customize the theme of your app, you can override the Ionic's default css variables. You can start by creating a `~/assets/css/ionic.css` file and adding it to `css` property in your `nuxt.config.ts` file. Following the example:

::code-group

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  css: ['~/assets/css/ionic.css'],
})
```

```css [assets/css/ionic.css]
:root {
  --ion-color-primary: #57e389;
  --ion-color-primary-rgb: 87, 227, 137;
  --ion-color-primary-contrast: #000000;
  --ion-color-primary-contrast-rgb: 0, 0, 0;
  --ion-color-primary-shade: #4dc879;
  --ion-color-primary-tint: #68e695;

  /* And so on... */
}
```

::

To learn more about theming and which variables to override, check out Ionic's [official theming documentation](https://ionicframework.com/docs/theming/basics).

## Ionic Framework components

All Ionic Vue components should be auto-imported throughout your app. (If you find one that isn't, please open an issue.) Although your IDE should be aware of these everywhere, they are not globally registered and are only imported within the components that use them. For more on how component imports work, see the [Nuxt documentation](https://v3.nuxtjs.org/guide/directory-structure/components#components-directory).

::alert{type=info}
If you find a component that isn't being auto-imported, please open an issue or a pull request. If you're thinking of latter option, please do so in [alphabetical order](https://github.com/danielroe/nuxt-ionic/blob/main/src/module.ts#L188-L191) for making it easy for others to find the component as well!
::

## Module utility components

Module also offers few components made for easier and more seamless way to integrate Ionic's composables or functions into your Nuxt app.

### `IonAnimation` component

Component made specifically to make usage of Ionic's `createAnimation` easier. It has almost 1 to 1 props matching as your usual animation object. For more see [official Ionic docs](https://ionicframework.com/docs/utilities/animations) or check out [playground examples](https://github.com/danielroe/nuxt-ionic/blob/main/playground/pages/tabs/tab4.vue)

You can see how it replaces usage of regular `createAnimation` function in the code example below:

::code-group

```vue [IonAnimation]
<template>
  <IonAnimation
    :duration="3000"
    :iterations="Infinity"
    :keyframes="[
      { offset: 0, background: 'red' },
      { offset: 0.72, background: 'var(--background)' },
      { offset: 1, background: 'green' },
    ]"
    playOnMount
  >
    <!-- Content to animate -->
  </IonAnimation>
</template>
```

```vue [Manual usage]
<script setup lang="ts">
// Template ref of your element
const squareRef = ref()

// Your animation object
const animation = createAnimation()
  .addElement(squareRef.value)
  .duration(3000)
  .iterations(Infinity)
  .keyframes([
    { offset: 0, background: 'red' },
    { offset: 0.72, background: 'var(--background)' },
    { offset: 1, background: 'green' },
  ])

onMounted(() => {
  animation.play()
})
</script>
```

::

::alert{type=info}
Currently component doesn't support grouped and chained animations. For that usage we still recommend using `createAnimation` by itself
::

## Icons

Icons are auto-imported from `ionicons/icons` by default, following the pattern of camel case naming with `ionicons` in front of the original icon name, that you can find on the [official ionicons website](https://ionic.io/ionicons).

::code-group

```vue [Auto-imported icons]
<template>
  <ion-icon :icon="ioniconsImage"></ion-icon>
  <ion-icon :md="ioniconsSquareSharp" :ios="ioniconsTriangleOutline"></ion-icon>
</template>
```

```vue [Manual imports]
<script setup lang="ts">
import { image, squareSharp, triangleOutline } from 'ionicons/icons'
</script>

<template>
  <ion-icon :icon="image"></ion-icon>
  <ion-icon :md="squareSharp" :ios="triangleOutline"></ion-icon>
</template>
```

::

You can opt-out of auto-importing by setting `integrations.icons` module options in your `nuxt.config.ts` to `false`.

## Helper functions

Nuxt provides a number of Ionic hooks/composables via auto-imports within your app:

`createAnimation`, `createGesture`, `getPlatforms`, `getTimeGivenProgression`, `iosTransitionAnimation`, `isPlatform`, `mdTransitionAnimation`, `menuController`, `onIonViewWillEnter`, `onIonViewDidEnter`, `onIonViewWillLeave`, `onIonViewDidLeave`, `useBackButton`, `useKeyboard`, `useIonRouter`

For more on what these do, you can read the [Ionic docs](https://ionicframework.com/docs/). For more on how auto-imports work, see the [Nuxt documentation](https://v3.nuxtjs.org/guide/concepts/auto-imports#auto-imports).

## Advanced

### Customizing your root `app.vue`

If you need to customize the default Ionic `app.vue` file, you can create a new one in your project's source directory.

This is the default:

```vue [app.vue]
<template>
  <ion-app>
    <ion-router-outlet />
  </ion-app>
</template>
```
