---
navigation.icon: uil:sign-alt
---

# Routing

Routing within your Nuxt Ionic application will feel very similar, but with a couple of differences.

By default, this module sets up the Ionic Router, or `IonRouter`. This router is built on top of `vue-router`, but with some changed functionality specifically for making it work better for mobile applications.

::list{type="success"}
- Enables [non-linear routing](https://ionicframework.com/docs/vue/navigation#non-linear-routing), e.g. for application tabs
- Separate navigation stacks for each tab of your application
- Rich page transitions out-of-the-box, appropriate for mobile
- Simple API for custom animations and direction control when navigating via links 
::

## Pages

Just like regular Nuxt, you can start building your Ionic application by creating routes within the `~/pages` directory. Every Vue file inside this directory will generate a route that displays the contents of the file. Read more about [Nuxt file-based routing](https://nuxt.com/docs/getting-started/routing) here.

::list{type="warning"}
- The root component of every page must always be the `<ion-page>` component.
::

This is required by Ionic to set up page transitions and stack navigation. Each view that is navigated to using the router must include an `<ion-page>` component.

```vue [~/pages/home.vue]
<template>
  <ion-page>
    <ion-header>
      <ion-toolbar>
        <ion-title>Home</ion-title>
      </ion-toolbar>
    </ion-header>
    <ion-content class="ion-padding">Hello World</ion-content>
  </ion-page>
</template>
```

::alert{type="info"}
Read more about [`<ion-page>` here](https://ionicframework.com/docs/vue/navigation#ionpage).
::

### Defining page meta

Nuxt utilities like `definePageMeta` are fully functional. However, you should avoid using `<NuxtPage>` or `<NuxtLayout>` as these will not function correctly, due to Ionic requiring an `<ion-router-outlet>` instead.

::alert{type="info"}
Read more about [`definePageMeta` here](https://nuxt.com/docs/api/utils/define-page-meta).
::

### Define a root alias if there's no index.vue page

Usually applications with tab bars will not have a `~/pages/index.vue` file, as it's not needed. However, this will mean opening the app will return a 404, e.g. on localhost:3000.

To solve this, if you do not have a `~/pages/index.vue` file in your project, you should add the following code to the page that you want to be displayed on your app's root page:

```ts [pages/tabs.vue]
definePageMeta({
  alias: ['/'],
})
```

It will now be used as the root path, and will be routed to by default when visiting e.g. localhost:3000.


## Navigation

Navigation can be done in several ways, using the `IonRouter` or certain `ion-` components.

::alert{type="info"}
Read about navigation in [Ionic's Vue Navigation docs](https://ionicframework.com/docs/vue/navigation).
::

### IonRouter

To access the router, use the composable `useIonRouter()`. This should always be used instead of the regular `useRouter()` (which is auto-imported from `vue-router` by Nuxt). This ensures the benefits of the Ion Router are always provided.

This module auto-imports `useIonRouter()` so it should be available automatically. If this is disabled, you can import it from `@ionic/vue`.

It is best used when you wish to control navigation programmatically and have full control over the page transitions.

```vue
<script setup lang="ts">
import { customAnimation } from '~/animations/customAnimation';

const router = useIonRouter();

const goHome = () => router.push('/home');
const goBack = () => router.back();
const replaceRoute = () => router.replace({ name: 'newRoute' })
const customAnimatedNavigation = () => router.navigate('/page2', 'forward', 'replace', customAnimation);
</script>
```

::alert{type="info"}
Read more about [`useIonRouter() here`](https://ionicframework.com/docs/vue/navigation#navigating-using-useionrouter).
::

### Navigating with Components

All Ionic components expose a `router-link` attribute. When set, the router will navigate to the specified route when the component is clicked. It accepts strings as well as named routes.

`router-direction` and `router-animation` are also available for further control.

It's best used when simple routing is required, without any programmatic logic before or after.

```vue
<template>
  <ion-button router-link="{ name: 'myPage' }">Click Me</ion-button>
  <ion-button 
    router-link="/page2" 
    router-direction="back" 
    :router-animation="myAnimation"
  >
    Click Me
  </ion-button>
</template>
```


::alert{type="info"}
Read about [using the `router-link` attribute here](https://ionicframework.com/docs/vue/navigation#navigating-using-router-link).
::

::alert{type="warning"}
Avoid using `<NuxtLink>` for now as it currently is not integrated with the Ionic Router.
::

## Route Parameters

When accessing route parameters, `useRoute()` should continue to be used, just like regular Nuxt.

```vue [pages/posts/[id}.vue]
<script setup lang="ts">
const route = useRoute()

// When accessing /posts/1, route.params.id will be 1
console.log(route.params.id)
</script>
```

::alert{type="info"}
Read more about [Nuxt route parmeters here](https://nuxt.com/docs/getting-started/routing#route-parameters). 
::

## Route Middleware

Nuxt's Route Middleware is also integrated and available, just like regular Nuxt.

::code-group

```ts [middleware/auth.ts]
export default defineNuxtRouteMiddleware((to, from) => {
  // isAuthenticated() is an example method verifying if a user is authenticated
  if (isAuthenticated() === false) {
    return showLoginModal(); // showLoginModal() is an example of opening a modal flow for authentication
  }
})
```

```html [pages/tabs/feed.vue]
<script setup lang="ts">
definePageMeta({
  middleware: 'auth'
})
</script>

<template>
  <h1>Welcome to your feed</h1>
</template>
```

::

::alert{type="info"}
Read more about [Nuxt route middleware here](https://nuxt.com/docs/getting-started/routing#route-middleware).
::
