---
navigation.icon: uil:info-circle
description: 'Batteries-included, zero-config needed, Ionic integration for Nuxt'
---

# Introduction

::alert{type="warning"}
⚠️ @nuxtjs/ionic is currently a work in progress. ⚠️
::

`@nuxtjs/ionic` provides a batteries-included, zero-config needed, Ionic integration for Nuxt.

Supercharge your Ionic apps with the power of Nuxt, giving you the tremendous development experience you're used to
when using Nuxt for web.

Follow the installation guide to get going immediately, or continue reading to find out more about what this module provides.

::alert{type="info"}
Get started with our [Installation guide](/get-started/installation).
::

## What is Ionic?

[The Ionic SDK](https://ionicframework.com/) is an open-source UI toolkit for building modern, cross-platform mobile apps from a single codebase. It deeply integrates with Vue for a delightful mobile dev experience.

::alert{type="info"}
Read the [Ionic documentation for Vue](https://ionicframework.com/docs/vue/overview) to learn more about Vue development with Ionic.
::

## Features

This module attempts to get you going with Nuxt + Ionic quickly, providing sane defaults for ionic and helpful components and utilities. The configuration file can still customize and override its default behaviors and provide full customisation of ionic.

::list{type=success}
- **Ionic router integration:** continue defining routes based on the structure of your `~/pages` directory and using page-level utilities such as `definePageMeta()`.
- **Auto-imports**: Ionic components, composables and icons are all [auto-imported](https://nuxt.com/docs/guide/concepts/auto-imports) for ease of use.
- **Helpful components and utilities**: This module provides components and utilities to accomplish common tasks more easily.
- **PWA support**: out-of-the-box support for progressive web apps, using `nuxt-pwa-module`.
- **Pre-render routes**
- **Mobile meta tags**
- **Capacitor integration**: works out-of-the-box with [Capacitor](https://capacitorjs.com/) for shipping to native platforms like iOS and Android.
::

::alert{type="info"}
Read more about [our features](/overview).
::

## Cookbook

Our cookbook documentation provides common use-cases with code examples to get you going as fast as possible. And if you create something useful, come back and submit a PR to have it added to our cookbook.

::alert{type="info"}
Discover common recipes in [our cookbook](/cookbook).
::
