---
navigation.icon: nonicons:capacitor-16
---

# Enabling Capacitor

[Capacitor](https://capacitorjs.com/) is a powerful tool for shipping to native platforms like iOS and Android, separate from or alongside your web app.

The good news is that it's installed by default with `@nuxtjs/ionic`. You just need to enable it in your ionic app, and choose what platforms you want to support.

> The Ionic CLI is available via `npx` or can be installed globally with `npm install -g @ionic/cli` or `yarn global add @ionic/cli` or `pnpm add -g @ionic/cli`.

::code-group

```bash [npx]
npx @ionic/cli integrations enable capacitor
npx @ionic/cli capacitor add ios
npx @ionic/cli capacitor add android
```

```bash [npm]
# ionic config set -g npmClient npm

ionic integrations enable capacitor
ionic capacitor add ios
ionic capacitor add android
```

```bash [yarn]
ionic config set -g npmClient yarn

ionic integrations enable capacitor
ionic capacitor add ios
ionic capacitor add android
```

```bash [pnpm]
ionic config set -g npmClient pnpm

ionic integrations enable capacitor
ionic capacitor add ios
ionic capacitor add android
```

::

::alert{type="info"}
Read more about [creating for iOS and Android here](/cookbook/creating-ios-android-apps).
::

#### Run on iOS or Android

Once an Android or iOS project is added with Capacitor, you can run your app on an iOS or Android emulator.

::alert
Android Studio and SDK (for Android projects) or XCode (for iOS projects) are required to use the `npx cap open` or `npx cap run` command. See the [Capacitor Environment Setup docs](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/getting-started/environment-setup) for details.
::

To build, sync, and run your app:

1. Create a web build with `npx nuxt generate` or `npx nuxt build`.
2. Run `npx cap sync` to update your Capacitor project directories with your latest app build.
3. Run `npx cap run android` or `npx cap run ios` to run the app from the command line using an installed device **OR**
4. _(Optional)_ Run `npx cap open android` or `npx cap open ios` to open the project in Android Studio or XCode, respectively.

> Remember to run `npx cap sync` after every new build to ensure your Android and/or iOS project is up-to-date.

::alert{type="info"}
Read more about [local development for iOS and Android here](/cookbook/local-development).
::
